README.md, before:

# mta_downloader: Batch Downloader for Historical NYC MTA Train data
Downloads the archived mta train data (starting from 2014) 
onto your machine.

## How to install 
Requirements 
    - pyenv/pyvirtualenv which manages different versions of python and also
      manages the dependencies 
    - `sudo pip3 install pipenv` and https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-installer to install pipenv and pyenv respectively

1.  clone the repository and cd into it.
2.  `pyenv virtualenv 3.8.1 mta_downloader`
3.  `pyenv activate mta_downloader`
4.  `pipenv install` to install the dependencies.

## Usage: 
```
Usage: python mta_download.py LINE START_DATE END_DATE DIR [--json]
Please note: this script is sensitive to the order of the passed in
params. All arguments are required.
    LINE: Which train line to download from. One of numbers,l,sir for trains 1-6, the L train, and the staten island railway respectively.
    START_DATE: Form YYYY-MM-DD e.g 2020-01-01.
    END_DATE: Exclusive. Form YYYY-MM-DD e.g 2020-01-02.
    DIRECTORY: the directory for output, must already exist
    --json: convert the output from gtfs_pb2.FeedMessage binary protos to json
```

## A Note about the data source: 
unfortunately the data on the mta servers appears to be sparse
this is based on looking from 2017-09-17 ~ 2017-10.

Here the information is displayed in a table.
```
line | success | fail
1-6  | 8667    | 260
sir  | 0       | 1630 
l    | 0       | 8928
```

Commit message:

updated readme to include things about the realtime download and the mta key. also updated both scripts. mta_download can now handles windows and is actually being set correctly

README.md, after:

# mta_downloader: Batch Downloader for Historical and realtime NYC MTA Train data

Downloads the archived mta train data (starting from 2014) 
onto your machine for historical data.

Due to the limited train lines that actually have historical data, 
I included the ability for this script to also schedule downloads 
using the realtime api (which includes every mta line) if end_date
is in the future. 

## How to install 
Requirements 
    - pyenv/pyvirtualenv which manages different versions of python and also
      manages the dependencies 
    - `sudo pip3 install pipenv` and https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-installer to install pipenv and pyenv respectively
    - a valid MTA api key. please run `export MTA_API_KEY=<>` before running the scripts.

1.  clone the repository and cd into it.
2.  `pyenv virtualenv 3.8.1 mta_downloader`
3.  `pyenv activate mta_downloader`
4.  `pipenv install` to install the dependencies.

## Usage: 
```
Usage: python mta_download.py LINE START_DATE END_DATE DIR [--json]
Please note: this script is sensitive to the order of the passed in
params. All arguments are required.
    LINE: Which train line to download from. for historical data, only numbers,l,sir are applicable. for realtime data, see the table below.
    START_DATE: Form YYYY-MM-DD e.g 2020-01-01.
    END_DATE: Exclusive. Form YYYY-MM-DD e.g 2020-01-02.
    DIRECTORY: the directory for output, must already exist
    --json: convert the output from gtfs_pb2.FeedMessage binary protos to json
```

how to pass in the line parameter (for realtime data)
```
parameter | lines
numbers   | 123456
blues     | ACE+S shuttle train
yellow    | NQRW
orange    | BDFM
l         | L Train
brown     | JZ 
purple    | 7
SIR       | Staten Island Railway
```

## A Note about the data source: 
unfortunately the data on the mta servers appears to be sparse
this is based on looking from 2017-09-17 ~ 2017-10.

Here the information is displayed in a table.
```
line | success | fail
1-6  | 8667    | 260
sir  | 0       | 1630 
l    | 0       | 8928
```
